Machine ID Docs Refactor: SSH Access guide (#32735)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/access-guides/ssh.mdx

description: How to use Machine ID to access servers via SSH
---

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/v2-config-warning.mdx!)

> Teleport Server Access protects and controls SSH access to servers. Machine ID
> can be used to grant machines secure, short-lived access to these servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport protects and controls SSH access to servers. Machine ID
can be used to grant machines secure, short-lived access to these servers.
```

Since we're no longer describing "<Resource> Access" features as distinct products (outside docs titles where we're using title case).

In this guide, you will configure `tbot` to produce credentials that can be

> used to access a Linux server enrolled in Teleport Server Access. The guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used to access a Linux server enrolled in Teleport. The guide
```

> will cover access using Teleports CLI `tsh` as well as the OpenSSH SSH client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will cover access using the Teleport CLI `tsh` as well as the OpenSSH client.
```

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- If you have not already connected your server to Teleport, follow
  the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../../application-access/getting-started.mdx).

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- `tbot` must already be installed and configured on the machine that will
  connect to Linux hosts with SSH. For more information, see the
  [platform guides](../platform-guides.mdx).

## Step 1/3. Configure RBAC

First, Teleport must be configured to allow the credentials produced by the bot

> to connect to the SSH servers. In this example, access will be granted to all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to connect to SSH servers in your infrastructure. In this example, access will be granted to all
```
Qualifying this since it's the first time we mention "SSH servers".

SSH nodes for the username `root`.

> For production use, you should use labels to restrict this access to only the

Reviewer: Same comment as the Ansible guide: we should move this after the YAML snippet so it's clearer what "labels" refers to.

> hosts that the bot will need to access. This is known as the principal of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hosts that the bot will need to access. This is known as the principle of
```

least privilege and limits the damage that exfiltrated credentials can do.

You may also wish to adjust this to grant access to a user other than `root`
depending on what commands will need to be executed with the credentials.

If you have followed an access guide, you will have created a role and granted
the bot the ability to impersonate it already. This role just needs to have the
additional privileges added to it.

Use `tctl edit role/example-bot` to add the following to the role:

```yaml
spec:
  allow:
    # Allow login to the Linux user 'root'.
    logins: ['root']
    # Allow connection to any node. Adjust these labels to match only nodes
    # that ansible needs to access.
    node_labels:
      '*': '*'
```

## Step 2/3. Configure the `tbot` output

> Now, `tbot` needs to be configured with an output that will produce the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, `tbot` needs to be configured with an output that will produce an
```

SSH certificate and OpenSSH configuration. For this we use the `identity` output
type.

Outputs must be configured with a destination. In this example, the `directory`
destination will be used. This will write these credentials to a specified
directory on disk. Ensure that this directory can be written to by the Linux
user that `tbot` runs as, and that it can be read by the Linux user that needs
to use SSH.

Modify your `tbot` configuration to add an `identity` output:

```yaml
outputs:
- type: identity
  destination:
    type: directory
    # For this guide, /opt/machine-id is used as the destination directory.
    # You may wish to customize this. Multiple outputs cannot share the same
    # destination.
    path: /opt/machine-id
```

If operating `tbot` as a background service, restart it. If running `tbot` in

> one-shot mode, it must be executed before you attempt to execute the Ansible
> playbook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one-shot mode, it must be executed before you attempt to connect your machine to a server registered with Teleport.
```
Or something else that fixes the miscopied text.

Author: 11f7830f93

## Step 3/3. Using the output credentials

Once `tbot` has been run or restarted, you should now see several files under
`/opt/machine-id`:

- `identity`: this is a bundle of credentials that can be used by `tsh` to
 authenticate.
- `ssh_config`: this can be used with OpenSSH and other tools to configure them

> to use the Teleport Proxy with the correct credentials when making connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use the Teleport Proxy Service with the correct credentials when making connections.
```

- `known_hosts`: this contains the Teleport SSH host CAs and allows the SSH

> client to validate a hosts certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client to validate a host's certificate.
```

- `key-cert.pub`: this is an SSH certificate signed by the Teleport SSH user
CA.
- `key`: this is the private key needed to use the SSH certificate.

> These credentials can be used with Teleport's CLI `tsh` or with tools based on
> OpenSSHs SSH client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These credentials can be used with Teleport's CLI `tsh` or with OpenSSH client tools like `ssh` and `sftp`.
```
To avoid repeating "SSH". The original is also fine, but we need an apostrophe in "OpenSSHs".

### Connecting using `tsh`

To use `tsh` with a `tbot` identity output, the path to the `identity` file
must be specified using the `-i` flag. In addition, `--proxy` must be used to

> specify the address of the Teleport Proxy that should be used when making

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specify the address of the Teleport Proxy Service that should be used when making
```

proxy `example.teleport.sh:443` and to execute the command `hostname`:

```code
$ tsh -i /opt/machine-id/identity --proxy example.teleport.sh:443 root@my-host hostname
my-host
```

### Connecting using OpenSSH

To use OpenSSH with the identity output, the path to the `ssh_config` should be
provided to `ssh` with the `-F` flag.

With the generated `ssh_config` you must append the name of the Teleport cluster
to the name of the node - in this example, the command `hostname` is
executed as `root` on the node `my-host` belonging to the cluster
`example.teleport.sh`.

```code
$ ssh -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config root@my-host.example.teleport.sh hostname
my-host
```

<Notice type="warning">
  The `ssh_config` for OpenSSH requires that `tsh` is installed. This is
  necessary as `tsh` is used to make the OpenSSH client compatible with
  Teleport's port multiplexing.
</Notice>

### Connecting using other tools

To integrate with other SSH tools, first determine whether the `ssh_config`
is compatible with them. This is the case for many tools such as Ansible and the
guidance provided under "Connecting using OpenSSH" should be sufficient.

If you wish to integrate with Ansible, check out the

> [Ansible specific guide](./ansible.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Ansible-specific guide](./ansible.mdx).
```
